Blazor auth documentation (#12853)
aspnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/security/index.md

### Use the \[Authorize] attribute

Just like an app can use `[Authorize]` with an MVC controller or Razor page, `[Authorize]` can also be used with Razor Components:

```cshtml
@page "/"
@attribute [Authorize]

You can only see this if you're signed in.
```

**Important:** Only use `[Authorize]` on `@page` components reached via the router. Authorization is only performed as an aspect of routing and *not* for child components rendered within a page. To authorize the display of specific parts within a page, use `<AuthorizeView>` instead.

You may need to add `@using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization` either to the component or to the *\_Imports.razor* file in order for this to compile.

The `[Authorize]` attribute also supports role-based or policy-based authorization. For role-based authorization, use the `Roles` parameter:

```cshtml
@page "/"
@attribute [Authorize(Roles = "admin, superuser")]

You can only see this if you're in the 'admin' or 'superuser' role.
```

For policy-based authorization, use the `Policy` parameter:

```cshtml
@page "/"
@attribute [Authorize(Policy = "content-editor")]

You can only see this if you satisfy the 'content-editor' policy.
```

> If neither `Roles` nor `Policy` is specified, `<AuthorizeView>` uses the default policy, which by default is to treat:

Reviewer: Typo: this should refer to [Authorize], not AuthorizeView.

Reviewer: But only here. Not in the part of the doc that actually is about AuthorizeView.

---
title: ASP.NET Core Blazor authentication and authorization
author: guardrex
description: Learn about Blazor authentication and authorization scenarios.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-3.0'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 06/14/2019
uid: blazor/security/index
---
# ASP.NET Core Blazor authentication and authorization

By [Steve Sanderson](https://github.com/SteveSandersonMS)

> Blazor and ASP.NET Core provide scenarios for the configuration and management of security in Blazor apps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ASP.NET Core supports the configuration and management of security in Blazor apps.
```

| Individual<br>Users stored in the app with ASP.NET Core Identity.                        | `Individual`             |
| Individual<br>Users stored in [Azure AD B2C](xref:security/authentication/azure-ad-b2c). | `IndividualB2C`          |
| Work or School Accounts<br>Organizational authentication for a single tenant.            | `SingleOrg`              |
| Work or School Accounts<br>Organizational authentication for multiple tenants.           | `MultiOrg`               |
| Windows Authentication                                                                   | `Windows`                |

The command creates a folder named with the value in the `{APP NAME}` placeholder and uses the same value as the app name. For more information, see the [dotnet new](/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-new) command in the .NET Core Guide.

---

### Blazor client-side authentication

In Blazor client-side apps, authentication checks can be bypassed because all client-side code can be modified by users. The same is true for all client-side app technologies, including JavaScript SPA frameworks or native apps for any operating system.

> Implement an Authentication State Provider to integrate a Blazor client-side app with external authentication systems independently of server-side code. For more information, see the [Implement a custom Authentication State Provider](#implement-a-custom-authentication-state-provider) section.

Author: It's mostly a localization issue. In plain text (words with spaces), this can machine translate.

Is this ok? .....

> Implement an Authentication State Provider (\`AuthenticationStateProvider\`) to integrate ...

## \<AuthorizeView>

This approach is useful when you only need to *display* user data and don't need to use the data in procedural logic.

> The `<AuthorizeView>` component exposes a `context` variable of type `AuthenticationState`, which you can use to display information about the signed-in user:

Author: Yes ... and I do that often around the docs on these. I also frequently put the the tag in parenthesis after writing it out on the first appearance. I'll fix them all up on the next commit.

```cshtml
<AuthorizeView>
    <h1>Hello, @context.User.Identity.Name!</h1>
    <p>You can only see this content if you're authenticated.</p>
</AuthorizeView>
```

You can also supply different content for display if the user isn't authenticated:

```cshtml
<AuthorizeView>
    <Authorized>
        <h1>Hello, @context.User.Identity.Name!</h1>
        <p>You can only see this content if you're authenticated.</p>
    </Authorized>
    <NotAuthorized>
        <h1>Authentication Failure!</h1>
        <p>You're not signed in.</p>
    </NotAuthorized>
</AuthorizeView>
```

> The content of `<Authorized>` and `<NotAuthorized>` can include arbitrary items, such as other interactive components.

Author: But, it's referring to what the dev can put into markup for those props.

> The content of `<Authorized>` and `<NotAuthorized>` can include arbitrary items, such as other interactive components.

Reviewer 2: OK, I guess we are referring to the content of these tags here. But when we refer to them as parameters I'd prefer to not use the angle brackets.

@code {
    private async Task LogUsername()
    {
        var authState = await AuthenticationStateProvider.GetAuthenticationStateAsync();
        var user = authState.User;

        if (user.Identity.IsAuthenticated)
        {
            Console.WriteLine($"{user.Identity.Name} is authenticated.");
        }
        else
        {
            Console.WriteLine("The user is NOT authenticated.");
        }
    }
}
```

If `user.Identity.IsAuthenticated` is `true` and because the user is a <xref:System.Security.Claims.ClaimsPrincipal>, claims can be enumerated and membership in roles evaluated.

For more information on dependency injection (DI) and services, see <xref:blazor/dependency-injection> and <xref:fundamentals/dependency-injection>.

## Implement a custom Authentication State Provider

> [!WARNING]
> **We don't recommend implementing a custom Authentication State Provider.**
>
> The built-in Authentication State Provider (`AuthenticationStateProvider`) implementation integrates with ASP.NET Core's built-in authentication mechanisms. If a custom provider is implemented, security vulnerabilities might be introduced to the app.

> The only common scenario where a custom Authentication State Provider (`AuthenticationStateProvider`) is implemented is in a Blazor client-side app. A custom provider can integrate with external authentication systems independently of server-side code. In Blazor client-side apps, authentication only exists to present a convenient UI to well-behaved users&mdash;authentication doesn't enforce security in Blazor client-side apps because client-side rules can be bypassed by a malicious user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The only common scenario where a custom Authentication State Provider (`AuthenticationStateProvider`) is implemented is in a Blazor client-side app. A custom provider can integrate with external authentication systems independently of server-side code. In Blazor client-side apps, authentication only exists to present a convenient UI to well-behaved users&mdash;authentication doesn't enforce security in Blazor client-side apps because client-side authorization rules can be bypassed by a malicious user.
```

The `AuthenticationStateProvider` service can provide the current user's <xref:System.Security.Claims.ClaimsPrincipal> data, as shown in the following example:

```cshtml
@page "/"
@inject AuthenticationStateProvider AuthenticationStateProvider

<button @onclick="@LogUsername">Write user info to console</button>

@code {
    private async Task LogUsername()
    {
        var authState = await AuthenticationStateProvider.GetAuthenticationStateAsync();
        var user = authState.User;

        if (user.Identity.IsAuthenticated)
        {
            Console.WriteLine($"{user.Identity.Name} is authenticated.");
        }
        else
        {
            Console.WriteLine("The user is NOT authenticated.");
        }
    }
}
```

If `user.Identity.IsAuthenticated` is `true` and because the user is a <xref:System.Security.Claims.ClaimsPrincipal>, claims can be enumerated and membership in roles evaluated.

For more information on dependency injection (DI) and services, see <xref:blazor/dependency-injection> and <xref:fundamentals/dependency-injection>.

### Implement a custom AuthenticationStateProvider

> > [!WARNING]

Reviewer 2: I think we should remove this note and the following paragraph at this point. We're already planning on putting a custom AuthenticationStateProvider into the Blazor server-side template to deal with authentication revalidation.

Reviewer: +1 to this. I came here to leave this exact same comment.

> **We don't recommend implementing a custom `AuthenticationStateProvider` in Blazor server-side apps.**
>
> The built-in `AuthenticationStateProvider` implementation for Blazor server-side apps integrates with ASP.NET Core's built-in authentication mechanisms. If a custom provider is implemented, security vulnerabilities might be introduced to the app.

> The only common scenario where a custom `AuthenticationStateProvider` is implemented is in a Blazor client-side app. A custom provider can integrate with external authentication systems independently of server-side code. In Blazor client-side apps, authentication only exists to present a convenient UI to well-behaved users&mdash;authentication doesn't enforce security in Blazor client-side apps because client-side authorization rules can be bypassed by a malicious user.

Reviewer 2: Remove

### Expose the authentication state as a cascading parameter

If authentication state data is required for procedural logic, such as when performing an action triggered by the user, obtain the authentication state data by defining a cascading parameter of type `Task<AuthenticationState>`:

```cshtml
@page "/"

<button @onclick="@LogUsername">Log username</button>

@code {
    [CascadingParameter]
    private Task<AuthenticationState> authenticationStateTask { get; set; }

    private async Task LogUsername()
    {
        var authState = await authenticationStateTask;
        var user = authState.User;

        if (user.Identity.IsAuthenticated)
        {
            Console.WriteLine($"{user.Identity.Name} is authenticated.");
        }
        else
        {
            Console.WriteLine("The user is NOT authenticated.");
        }
    }
}
```

Set up the `Task<AuthenticationState>` cascading parameter using the Cascading Authentication State component (`<CascadingAuthenticationState>`):

```cshtml
<CascadingAuthenticationState>
    <Router AppAssembly="typeof(Startup).Assembly">
        <NotFoundContent>
            <h1>Sorry</h1>

>             <p>Sorry, there's nothing at this address.</p> b

Reviewer: Typo: random trailing `b`

* Asynchronous authentication is in progress.

In the default Blazor server-side project template, the *App.razor* file demonstrates how to set custom content:

```cshtml
<CascadingAuthenticationState>
    <Router AppAssembly="typeof(Startup).Assembly">
        <NotFoundContent>
            <h1>Sorry</h1>
            <p>Sorry, there's nothing at this address.</p>
        </NotFoundContent>
        <NotAuthorizedContent>
            <h1>Sorry</h1>
            <p>You're not authorized to reach this page.</p>
            <p>You may need to log in as a different user.</p>
        </NotAuthorizedContent>
        <AuthorizingContent>
            <h1>Authentication in progress</h1>
            <p>Only visible while authentication is in progress.</p>
        </AuthorizingContent>
    </Router>
</CascadingAuthenticationState>
```

The content of `<NotFoundContent>`, `<NotAuthorizedContent>`, and `<AuthorizingContent>` can include arbitrary items, such as other interactive components.

If `<NotAuthorizedContent>` isn't specified, the router uses the following fallback message:

```html
Not authorized.
```

> [!NOTE]

> > **Known issue**: In ASP.NET Core 3.0 Preview 6, `<NotAuthorizedContent>` and `<AuthorizingContent>` on the Router component can't be specified in Blazor server-side apps but do work in Blazor client-side apps. This will be addressed in the Preview 7 release.

Reviewer: This note can be removed now. Preview 7 is very close to release and does fix this.
